Nicer people are poorer, says study.
New research shows that nicer people are likely to be poorer than people who are not so nice.
Researchers looked at how the personalities of different people affected how rich or well off they were.
The researchers found that people with a nice, warm personality were worse off financially than people who were more selfish.
Kinder people found it more difficult to look after their money.
Researcher Dr. Joe Gladstone said this was because of the agreeableness of people who were kinder, more trusting and more caring.
He said agreeableness is associated with financial hardship, including lower savings, higher debt and higher default rates.
The researchers looked at data from different sources, including two online surveys.
The surveys were taken by almost four thousand participants.
The data included answers to questions about people's financial situation, debt and attitudes towards money.
They compared this data with surveys in which almost five thousand people answered questions about their personality.
The surveys also measured how agreeable people were.
The researchers said agreeable people seemed to care less about money.
Because of this, they did not manage their money wisely.
Researcher Sandra Matz said that being kind and trusting had financial costs.
She said she wanted to better understand why nice guys seem to finish last.